
                         Simple DirectMedia Layer

                                  (SDL)

                                Version 1.2

---
http://www.libsdl.org/

This is the Simple DirectMedia Layer, a general API that provides low
level access to audio, keyboard, mouse, joystick, 3D hardware via OpenGL,
and 2D framebuffer across multiple platforms.

The current version supports Linux, Windows CE/95/98/ME/XP/Vista, BeOS,
MacOS Classic, Mac OS X, FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD, BSD/OS, Solaris, IRIX,
and QNX.  The code contains support for Dreamcast, Atari, AIX, OSF/Tru64,
RISC OS, SymbianOS, Nintendo DS, and OS/2, but these are not officially
supported.

SDL is written in C, but works with C++ natively, and has bindings to
several other languages, including Ada, C#, Eiffel, Erlang, Euphoria,
Guile, Haskell, Java, Lisp, Lua, ML, Objective C, Pascal, Perl, PHP,
Pike, Pliant, Python, Ruby, and Smalltalk.

This library is distributed under GNU LGPL version 2, which can be
found in the file  "COPYING".  This license allows you to use SDL
freely in commercial programs as long as you link with the dynamic
library.

The best way to learn how to use SDL is to check out the header files in
the "include" subdirectory and the programs in the "test" subdirectory.
The header files and test programs are well commented and always up to date.
More documentation is available in HTML format in "docs/index.html", and
a documentation wiki is available online at:
	http://www.libsdl.org/cgi/docwiki.cgi

The test programs in the "test" subdirectory are in the public domain.

Frequently asked questions are answered online:
	http://www.libsdl.org/faq.php

If you need help with the library, or just want to discuss SDL related
issues, you can join the developers mailing list:
	http://www.libsdl.org/mailing-list.php

Enjoy!
	Sam Lantinga				(slouken@libsdl.org)

Introduction
------------

This is one of the ports of SDL to the AmigaOS3/68k platform. I cannot
comment much on the origins of the code contributions to this port. I've
kept the files I got into my hands, along with the various existing Makefiles.

The main purpose of this branch (based on SDL 1.2.14, AFAIK) was to provide 
some bugfixes and performance improvements. Towards the latter point, most of
the blitting functions have been rewritten in 68k ASM. Also, some of the routines
can switch to AMMX usage (where applicable). 

This SDL version should work on all Amigas with RTG (Picasso96 or CyberGraphX).


Building
--------

Several Makefiles for different targets are present in this codebase. The one
I was using for the AMMX enabled builds is "Makefile". The compilers I've 
successfully used were gcc2.95 and gcc6.3.1b (20171120).

The static libSDL.a can be built by

    make CPU=68040 PREFX=/path/to/amiga-gcc/root

If no PREFX is defined during make, the default will be /opt/m68k-amigaos. Change the prefix path
as necessary. Compiler, Assembler and Linker binary names might need adjusting, too.
Please also have a look at VFLAGS. The old cross-compile toolchain I had was putting
the AmigaOS includes into "os-include". The recently released GCC6 toolchain by Bebbo
refers to "sys-include" instead.

My regular AMMX build is for libnix. If ixemul or clib2 is desired, then please refer to 
the other Makefiles to mix up an appropriate environment.


Usage
-----

When compiling SDL programs, I usually set the following flags to gcc: 

    -noixemul -O3 -fomit-frame-pointer -m68020-60 -mhard-float 

-mhard-float should only be used for binaries compiled for systems that has an FPU installed. For FPU-less setups use -msoft-float

The Linker commands should include -noixemul and -lSDL
